
1) Explain what is DevOps?

It is a newly emerging term in IT field, which is nothing but a practice that emphasizes the collaboration and communication of both software developers
 and other information-technology (IT) professionals. It focuses on delivering software product faster and lowering the failure rate of releases.

2) Mention what are the key aspects or principle behind DevOps?

The key aspects or principle behind DevOps is

Infrastructure as code
Continuous deployment
Automation
Monitoring
Security
3) What are the core operations of DevOps with application development and with infrastructure?

The core operations of DevOps with

Application development

Code building
Code coverage
Unit testing
Packaging
Deployment

5) Explain how DevOps is helpful to developers?

DevOps can be helpful to developers to fix the bug and implement new features quickly.  
It also helps for clearer communication between the team members

 
7) List out some popular tools for DevOps?

Some of the popular tools for DevOps ar
Jenkins
Docker
Ansible
Git 
nogios

8) Mention at what instance have you used the SSH?
I have used SSH to log into a remote machine and work on the command line.  


10)WHAT IS GIT
Git is a version control system for tracking changes in computer files and coordinating work on those files among multiple people.
 It is primarily used for source code management in software development,[8] but it can be used to keep track of changes in any set
 of files.

sub version
Subversion (SVN) is an open source version control system. It helps you keep track of a collection of files and folders. 
Any time you change, add or delete a file or folder that you manage with Subversion, you commit these changes to your Subversion
 repository, which creates a new revision in your repository reflecting these changes. You can always go back, look at and get the contents of previous revisions.

Nagios /'n??gi?o?s/, now known as Nagios Core, is a free and open source computer-software application that monitors systems, networks and infrastructure.
 Nagios offers monitoring and alerting services for servers, switches, applications and services. 

11)Benefits of version control systems

Developing software without using version control is risky, like not having backups.
 Version control can also enable developers to move faster and it allows software teams to preserve efficiency 
and agility as the team scalesto include more developers.


12)What is version control
Benefits of version control
Version control systems are a category of software tools that help a software team manage changes to source code over time. 
Version control software keeps track of every modification to the code in a special kind of database. 

13)What is a Jenkins job
                            
Jenkins is a powerful application that allows continuous integration and continuous delivery of projects,
 regardless of the platform you are working on.
 It is a free source that can handle any kind of build or continuous integration. You can integrate Jenkins 
with a number of testing and deployment technologies. Jenkins to build and test your software projects continuously

14)what is pipe jenkins
Jenkins Pipeline is a suite of plugins which supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines into Jenkins.
 Pipeline provides an extensible set of tools for modeling simple-to-complex delivery pipelines "as code" via the Pipeline DSL.

15)what is maven
Maven is a build automation tool used primarily for Java projects.the word maven means "accumulator of knowledge".Maven addresses two aspects of building software:
 first, it describes how software is built, and second, it describes its dependencies. Contrary to preceding tools like Apache Ant, it uses conventions for the build
 procedure, and only exceptions need to be written down. An XML file describes the software project being built, 
its dependencies on other external modules and components, the build order, directories, and required plug-ins. It comes with pre-defined targets for performing 
certain well-defined tasks such as compilation of code and its packaging.


16)what is docker
Docker container is an open source software development platform. Its main benefit is to package applications in “containers,” 
allowing them to be portable among any system running the Linux operating system (OS).

17)What is the container technology?
Containerization -- also called container-based virtualization and application containerization -- is an 
OS-level virtualization method for deploying and running distributed applications without launching an entire
 VM for each application.

18)What does virtualization do?
In computing, virtualization means to create a virtual version of a device or resource, such as a server, storage device,
 network or even an operating system where the framework divides the resource into one or more execution environments.

19)Why virtualization is required?
Virtualization reduces the number of physical servers, reducing the energy required to power and cool them. Save time. ...
 It's also much faster to deploy a virtual machine than it is to deploy a new physical server. Reduce desktop management headaches. 

20)Why virtualization is important?
The most important function of virtualization is the capability of running multiple operating systems and applications on a single
 computer or server. This means increased productivity achieved by fewer servers.

21)d/f virtual and containor
Containers use the same host operating system (OS) repeatedly, instead of installing (and paying to license) an OS for each guest VM. 
This is often referred to as operating system-level virtualization. ... Containerization allows the server to potentially host far more 
containers than it could virtual machines.

22)What is meant by containerization?
Containerization is a lightweight alternative to full machine virtualization that involves encapsulating an application in a container with its own operating environment.

23)what is puppet
In computing, Puppet is an open-source software configuration management tool. It runs on many Unix-like systems as well as on Microsoft Windows, and includes 
its own declarative language to describe system configuration.either using Puppet's declarative language or a Ruby DSL\


24)what is chef
Chef: "IT automation for speed and awesomeness" Chef is a configuration management tool for dealing with machine setup on physical servers, virtual machines and in the cloud. 
Many companies use Chef software to control and manage their infrastructure including Facebook, Etsy, Cheezburger, and Indiegogo.